BEAM FURR, Mayor
Board of County Commissioners District 6
115 S. Andrews Avenue • Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33301
(954) 357-7006
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM)
Office of Strategic Resources
45600 Woodland Road
Sterling, VA 20166
RE: BOEM’s request for information regarding Offshore Drilling and the National Outer Continental Shelf
Oil and Gas Leasing Program
To Whom It May Concern,
As Mayor of Broward County, I am writing to express our firm opposition to the inclusion of new offshore oil and
gas leasing off the coast of Florida in the 11th National Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program.
Coastal economies like ours are built on the foundation of clean beaches, healthy ecosystems, and vibrant tourism
and marine industries. Broward County’s economy generates over $700 million from our beaches each year. In
addition, our award-winning beaches are internationally-recognized for their high quality, clean experiences for
families of all backgrounds.
Offshore drilling puts all of that at risk. Even the perception of risk from oil and gas activity can negatively affect
tourism, property values, and investor confidence. A major spill would have long-lasting consequences for small
businesses, fisheries, and the thousands of jobs that rely on a healthy coastal environment.
I believe it is not in the best interest of our community, or our economy, to open our coasts to offshore drilling. The
potential short-term benefits to energy companies do not outweigh the long-term threats to coastal livelihoods, local
industries, and our natural resources.
I urge the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management to take these economic concerns seriously and to prioritize the
protection of our coasts in the upcoming leasing program. I look forward to working with our elected officials in
Congress to support policies that safeguard our shorelines and reject any efforts to expand offshore oil and gas
development.
Thank you for the opportunity to submit these comments. I appreciate your consideration of the interests of coastal
businesses and communities like ours.
Thank you,
Broward County Board of County Commissioners
Nan Rich • Mark Bogen • Michael Udine • Lamar Fisher • Steve Geller • Beam Furr • Alexandra Davis • Robert McKinzie • Hazelle Rogers
broward.org
