◼ 3901 West 86th Street, Suite 310 ◼ Phone (317) 876-0670
Indianapolis, Indiana 46268
June 5, 2025
By Electronic Submission
The Honorable Dr. Mehmet Oz
Administrator
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
Hubert H. Humphrey Building
725 17th Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20503
RE: CMS-1833-P
Medicare Program; Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment Systems for Acute
Care Hospitals and the Long- Term Care Hospital Prospective Payment System
and Policy Changes and Fiscal Year 2026 Rates; Requirements for Quality
Programs; and Other Policy Changes
Dear Administrator Oz,
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services’ (“CMS”)
proposed rule for the Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment System (“IPPS”) for federal fiscal year
(“FFY”) 2026. 90 Fed. Reg. 18.002 (April 30, 2025) (“Proposed Rule”).
In the Proposed Rule, CMS calculates wage indexes and payments rates to hospitals using an unlawful
interpretation and application of the Rural Floor and the Rural Floor Budget Neutrality Factor
(“RFBNF”), which for certain hospitals results in a lower Medicare wage index and lower Medicare
reimbursement than those providers are lawfully entitled to receive. Since Medicare Advantage
HMOs, TriCare, and other governmental programs reimbursement rates are tied to the Medicare wage
index, these providers are also receiving lower reimbursement for these programs than they are
lawfully entitled to receive. Our firm represents 159 providers from across the country that have been
negatively impacted by CMS’ failure to follow the letter of the law and clearly articulated intent of the
relevant statute. We request that the Secretary of Health and Human Services and CMS immediately
follow the requirements of the relevant statute, as explained below.
I. The Secretary and CMS are Unlawfully Interpreting and Applying the Rural Floor and
the Rural Floor Budget Neutrality Factor.
In 1997, Congress enacted the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (“BBA 1997”), Pub. L. No. 105-33. This
comment concerns Section 4410 of BBA 1997, and in particular, the intersection of paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Section 4410.
Section 4410(a) of BBA 1997, commonly known as the rural floor, provides:
For purposes of [the Medicare inpatient wage index statute] . . . , the area wage index
applicable under such section to any hospital which is not located in a rural area . . .
may not be less than the area wage index applicable under such section to hospitals
located in rural areas in the State in which the hospital is located.
Section 4410(b) of BBA 1997 imposes a budget neutrality factor, frequently referred to as the Rural
Floor Budget Neutrality Factor, on certain hospitals to offset the increase that the rural floor would
otherwise have on total Medicare program payments:
The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall adjust the area wage index referred
to in subsection (a) for hospitals not described in such subsection in a manner which
assures that the aggregate payments made. . . in a fiscal year for the operating costs of
inpatient hospital services are not greater or less than those which would have been
made in the year if this section did not apply. (Emphasis added).
Section 4410(b) explicitly prohibits the Secretary and CMS from applying the RFBNF in a way that
reduces the wage index of certain hospitals (i.e. those hospitals described in subsection (a)), as the
Secretary has acknowledged: “Thus, taken as a whole, subsection (a) of Section 4410 increases
Medicare payments to certain urban hospitals through application of the rural-floor adjustment; and
subsection (b) of the statute decreases Medicare payments to other hospitals so that the rural-floor
provision remains budget neutral.” St. Mary Medical Center v. Becerra, 581 F. Supp. 119 (D.D.C.
2022).
In a legal brief filed in St. Mary Medical Center v. Becerra, 581 F. Supp. 119 (D.D.C. 2022), the
Secretary agrees that “Section 4410(b) provides that only hospitals ‘not described in’ Section 4410(a)
are subject to the budget neutrality adjustment. On the Secretary’s interpretation, a hospital is
‘described in’ Section 4410(a) if its wage index is raised to the rural floor by that subsection. Section
4410(a) therefore describes low-wage urban hospitals...” Secretary’s Reply Brief in Support of
Summary Judgment, at 2. Despite this admission, the Secretary is misinterpreting and misapplying the
rural floor, and the subsequent application of the RFBNF, and unlawfully lowering the wage indices
of low wage index urban hospitals and certain reclassified rural hospitals that are statutorily exempt
from the application of the RFBNF.
Once the Secretary and CMS set the rural floor in a state as required by Section 4410(a), that is the
minimum wage index that low wage index urban hospitals and reclassified rural hospitals that receive
the rural floor must receive. The wage index of other hospitals (i.e., non-reclassified rural hospitals
and non-rural floor urban hospitals) may be reduced through the application of Section 4410(b), but
the Secretary may not reduce the wage index of the low wage index urban hospitals and reclassified
rural hospitals that receive the rural floor.
The Secretary and CMS’s unlawful policy has wide-reaching reimbursement effects, resulting in the
provider receiving less reimbursement than lawfully required in the areas of Medicare FFY, IME,
DSH, OPPS, and capital, among others, as reflected in the accompanying impact calculation.
II. The Secretary and CMS’s Rural Floor and RFBNF Methodology and How the
Calculation might Change if Section 4410 were Applied Properly.
The following example reflects CMS’s current RFBNF methodology and how that methodology might
be corrected if Section 4410 were applied properly. In the example, once the Secretary and CMS set
the rural floor in a state as required by Section 4410(a), that is the wage index that urban hospitals that
receive the rural floor receive. The example adjusts the Secretary and CMS’s current methodology to
apply budget neutrality only to rural hospitals and high wage index urban hospitals, with no reduction
in the wage index of the low wage index urban hospitals that receive the rural floor.
• The Secretary and CMS's current method results in this outcome:
o Rural Wage Index Floor Payments = N * (X + Y + Z)
▪ N = The percentage decrease in the area wage index because of the Rural Floor Budget
Neutrality Factor calculated for a given Federal Fiscal Year using the current method
▪ X = Value of 1% change in the wage indices to hospitals paid the Rural Floor wage index
▪ Y = Value of 1% change in the wage indices to hospitals paid the Rural wage index
▪ Z = Value of 1% change in the wage indices to hospitals paid an Urban wage index
higher than the Rural Floor wage index
• Adjustment necessary to correct the current methodology:
o Rural Wage Index Floor Payments = 2% * ((X + Y + Z) / (Y + Z)) * (Y + Z)
• Example of the adjustment necessary to correct the current methodology:
o CMS’s current method results in this outcome:
12 = 2% * (1 + 2 + 3) with N=2%, X=1, Y=2, Z=3
12 = 2% * ((1 + 2 + 3) / (2 + 3)) * (2 + 3)
12 = 2% * 1.2 * (2 + 3)
12 = 2.4% * (2 + 3)
12 = 2.4% * (X + Y)
In this example, the Rural Floor Budget Neutrality Factor would need to be adjusted by the Secretary
and CMS from 2% (0.9800) to 2.4% (0.9760).
We request that the Secretary and CMS immediately begin complying with the requirements of Section
4410 of BBA 1997 as detailed in this comment and stop applying the Rural Floor Budget Neutrality
Factor to providers who are paid a rural floor wage index.
Respectfully submitted,
CORE FINANCE TEAM AFFILIATES, LLC
By: Robert Brad Bowman
Managing Partner
