June 4, 2025
VIA REGULATIONS.GOV
Dr. Mehmet Oz
Administrator
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Department of Health and Human Services
7500 Security Boulevard
Baltimore, MD 21244-1850
Re: Medicare Program; Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment Systems for Acute Care
Hospitals and the Long-Term Care Hospital Prospective Payment System and Policy Changes
and Fiscal Year 2026 Rates; Requirements for Quality Programs; and Other Policy Changes
[CMS–1833–P
Dear Administrator Oz,
On behalf of MultiCare Health System, we appreciate the opportunity to comment on the hospital
inpatient prospective payment system (IPPS) proposed rule for fiscal year (FY) 2026 issued on April
11.
Below we note specific provisions that we support as well as the following recommended changes:
• Implement a market basket increase that better aligns with the actual cost of providing care
• Reduce the productivity adjustment
• Re-consider TEAM modifications that may threaten access to care or cause hospitals to
assume unsustainable levels of risk
Market basket increase
For FY 2026, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) proposes a market basket
increase of 3.2 percent, less a productivity reduction of .8 percent resulting in an update of 2.4
percent.
Unfortunately, this update lags far behind actual increases in the cost of providing hospital-based
care. We urge CMS to consider current health care system dynamics and their effects on hospitals
as it determines these figures.
The enduring impacts of high inflation for wages, utilities, construction materials, pharmaceuticals,
medical equipment and other supplies have dramatically increased our operational expenses in
recent years.
MultiCare experienced losses from operations of $287.4 million in 2022, $187.5 million in 2023, and
1
$116.5 million in 2024. Through the first three months of 2025, we experienced a loss from
operations of $89.8 million. We continue to make progress on returning our organization to a
positive margin — a necessary step so that we can expand existing services; add new services that
our communities need; and keep our facilities, technology platforms and equipment up to date.
However, inadequate reimbursement rates continue to hinder those efforts and create an ever-
increasing gap between the costs of providing care and the payments provided for that care. In
2024, our Medicaid payment shortfall was $435 million. Our Medicare shortfall increased by 3.2
percent from 2023 to 2024.
Further, we currently have nearly $2 billion in deferred capital needs that will need to be addressed
in the near future so that we can continue providing the safe, effective care our patients need and
deserve.
We ask CMS to use its exceptions and adjustments authority to implement a market basket
increase for FY 2026 that better aligns with the actual increases to the cost of providing hospital
care.
Productivity adjustment
MultiCare asks that CMS reduce the high productivity cut of 0.8 percent for FY 2026. Productivity
adjustments penalize hospitals when costs that are largely outside of our control increase more
suddenly and rapidly than efficiency and productivity gains can occur. For example, our overall
operating costs increased by 5.4 percent from 2023 to 2024.
We are concerned about the magnitude of the proposed productivity cut and its impact on our
ability to care for our communities. We urge CMS to reconsider this adjustment.
Transforming Episode Accountability Model (TEAM) modifications
CMS has proposed several modifications to the Transforming Episode Accountability Model
(TEAM), set to go into effect in 2026. MultiCare supports some modifications yet has concerns
about other changes that may force some hospitals to assume unsustainable risk, jeopardizing
their ability to care for their communities.
We provide feedback about specific TEAM provisions as follows:
1. Limited deferment period for certain hospitals and expiration of the Medicare Dependent
(MDH) program.
Together, the limited deferment period policy and the expiration of the MDH program minimize the
financial risk for new, rural and safety-net hospitals mandated to participate in TEAM. MultiCare
supports the limited deferment period for newly established hospitals. Allowing one full calendar
year after establishment to participate will provide new hospitals with time to prepare for the
model.
2
However, we suggest that newly established hospitals’ first performance years have no downside
risk — as all TEAM participants in their first performance year of the model are allowed. We believe
the first year of no downside risk allows an important learning experience to best optimize care
without risk of financial loss. In addition, it will have a lesser impact on a hospital’s decision of
whether and when to open a facility in a mandatory core-based statistical area (CBSA).
Further, we strongly support CMS’ decision to offer rural and safety net hospitals three years
without downside risk. We also appreciate that these hospitals will be offered lower financial risk
in Track 2, although we remain concerned that this financial risk may still cause harm to some
hospitals.
In the CY26 IPPS proposed rule, we support CMS’ proposed approach for MDH hospital
designations to ensure these hospitals are not inadvertently harmed by TEAM. We also encourage
CMS to offer technical assistance to any hospitals that may lose MDH status.
2. Episode definitions
CMS is considering but has not yet proposed two policies that would impact how episodes are
defined under Team — low-volume exclusions and changes to Indian Health Service (HIS) hospital
outpatient episodes.
If these policies were proposed and finalized, they would collectively have the impact of maximizing
the number of TEAM episodes — mandating financial risk for relatively low-volume hospitals and
IHS facilities, which are typically rural and safety-net providers.
MultiCare believes the minimum viable option for the low-volume threshold is 31 episodes in the
baseline for each clinical episode (rather than all clinical episodes in aggregate.) This is consistent
with the Bundled Payment for Care Improvement Advanced (BPCIA) low-volume threshold.
MultiCare also supports CMS offering hospitals upside-only risk on episodes below this threshold. If
CMS sets the threshold any lower, the results would not accurately reflect participants’
performance, because they would instead be driven by small number variation. Even with adequate
risk adjustment, numbers this small lead to unreliable results, and it would be unfair to assess
hospitals’ financial performance on measures that do not accurately assess their performance.
In addition, Multicare believes that IHS hospitals should be exempt from TEAM. Because TEAM is a
model with known financial risk and unknown benefits for patients, it is critical that CMS act with
caution when mandating participation from rural and safety net providers.
If CMS does not exempt IHS hospitals entirely, the agency should at minimum exclude all lower
extremity joint replacements (LEJR) and spinal fusion episodes at IHS hospitals. It is not possible to
apply standardized target prices across hybrid LEJR and spinal fusion episodes at IHS hospitals,
and CMS cannot fairly assess IHS hospital performance on these episodes.
3
Limiting the episode to inpatient-only would harm IHS hospitals in two ways. First, inpatient LEJR
and spinal fusion episodes have adverse selection relative to outpatient episodes in ways that are
not captured in claims-based risk adjustment, because clinical decisions on site of care are based in
part on patient-level factors like having a caregiver at home, which are not captured in claims.
Second, because LEJR and spinal fusion are increasingly performed in the outpatient setting,
limiting these episodes to inpatient only would further reduce the volume of these episodes, which
prevents accurate assessment of performance due to small number variation.
3. Care delivery
CMS is considering but has not yet proposed changes that would impact care delivery for patients
treated under TEAM. Under the current CY25 IPPS final rule, TEAM participants must determine a
patient’s primary care physician (PCP) status and refer patients to a PCP as part of the discharge
planning process for the initial admission of a clinical episode.
CMS is considering two potential alternatives: (1) requiring TEAM participants refer patients to a
PCP they’ve seen in the past two years to avoid potential gaming and (2) removing this
requirement entirely.
MultiCare supports the current policy requiring hospitals to connect patients to PCPs prior to
discharge because it recognizes the important role PCPs play in providing continuity of care to
patients in all settings.
To ensure continuity and alignment across care settings for patients, we encourage CMS to clarify
that TEAM participants ensure the PCP referral is consistent with the beneficiary’s PCP status
recorded at initiation of the hospitalization or procedure.
However, we do not believe that CMS should mandate that hospitals refer patients specifically to a
PCP they have visited in the past two years, as shown in the claims. This would substantially
increase the participant burden, since the claims are not integrated with the electronic health
record.
More importantly, patients may have moved or deliberately changed their usual source of care in
the previous two years, which means this requirement could prevent hospitals from connecting
patients to a more appropriate source of care. Due to claims lag, patients that recently switched
PCPs would not necessarily have their current PCP reflected in the claims available to the hospital
at the time of discharge.
Disproportionate share hospital payment charges
CMS is proposing an increase in disproportionate share hospital (DSH) and uncompensated care
payments of $1.5 billion as compared to FY 2025. As the largest provider of Medicaid-related care
in the state of Washington, MultiCare supports this increase. DSH payments are critical in helping
to offset the costs of providing care to Medicaid recipients and those who are uninsured, helping to
ensure access to care for our most vulnerable community members.
4
Thank you for considering our comments. The changes we recommend to the IPPS proposed rule
would help facilitate MultiCare’s success in providing quality, cost-effective care to our
communities. Please let us know if there is additional information we can provide.
Sincerely,
Ingrid S. Gourley Mungia, JD
VP, Public Policy and Advocacy
5
