June 4, 2025
Docket Operations, M-30
U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT)
1200 New Jersey Avenue SE
Room W12-140, West Building Ground Floor
Washington, DC 20590-0001
Submitted via http://www.regulations.gov/
Re: Request for Comment on FAA Proposal To Withhold Certain Aircraft Registration
Information From Public Dissemination (Docket No. FAA-2025-0638)
The City of Palo Alto submits the following in response to FAA’s request for comment on its proposal
to withhold certain aircraft registration data from public display on the FAA website.1 The City of Palo
Alto owns the Palo Alto Airport (PAO), one of the busiest general aviation Airports in the San Francisco
Bay Area of California. Most of PAO’s users are transient; the airport does not serve commercial airline
traffic.
FAA states it is considering the removal of registered owner information for private aircraft owners
categorically rather than only upon request.2 FAA says “[t]he removal of this data is intended to satisfy
the requirement in section 803 of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2024”.3 However, the categorical
removal of registered owner information would go beyond the requirements of section 803, which only
requires that FAA establish processes for withholding registered owner data “upon request of a private
aircraft owner or operator.” 49 U.S.C. § 44114 (emphasis added). FAA should not remove this
important data by default.
The airport utilizes registered aircraft owner information daily, both directly and indirectly through the
FAA Aircraft Inquiry (“Aircraft Registry”). The loss of access to this aircraft registration data would
greatly disrupt the airport’s ability to perform necessary functions.
First, PAO relies on Aircraft Registry data for noise mitigation. We partner with 1200.Aero, a third-
party airport operations tracking software tool that relies on FAA Aircraft Registry data. The airport
accesses registry data in response to noise complaints to identify and contact aircraft owners as
appropriate. Airport staff regularly speak with individual pilots and aircraft owners to educate them
1 90 FR 14590 (FAA Docket No. FAA-2025-0638).
2 90 FR 14590 (“What would be the impact if the FAA removed such information for private aircraft
owners categorically and permitted such owners to request copies of their information rather than
removing such information only upon an individual request?”); see also FAA Newsroom, FAA Moves
to Protect Aircraft Owners’ Private Information (Mar. 28, 2025), available at
https://www.faa.gov/newsroom/faa-moves-protect-aircraft-owners-private-information.
3 Id.
about voluntary noise abatement procedures. This process would not be possible without access to
Aircraft Registry name and contact information.
Second, PAO regularly uses Aircraft Registry data for tracking and billing airport users. PAO partners
with Altaport, a third-party invoicing tool that assembles data on transient users for use in airfield
surveillance and revenue collection. Altaport relies on FAA Aircraft Registry data to perform these
functions.
Finally, without simple, direct access to Aircraft Registry data, it would be difficult for PAO and law
enforcement to respond quickly to incidents requiring awareness of whose aircraft are on premises.
We recommend that FAA establish mechanisms to ensure that, even for data removed from public
dissemination on the website, access remains available for airport sponsors. The City of Palo Alto uses
the data to fulfill its sponsor obligations; any limitation to access to the data should not impede access
for airport sponsors. This approach would be consistent with the intent of section 803 of the FAA
Reauthorization Act of 2024 and would allow the City of Palo Alto to continue to fulfill its
responsibilities and efficiently manage PAO.
Thank you for the opportunity to submit the comments herein for FAA’s consideration.
Sincerely,
/s/ Brad Eggleston
Brad Eggleston
Director of Public Works
City of Palo Alto
