June 2, 2025
Charles Ezell, Acting Director
Office of Personnel Management
1900 E St NW
Washington, DC 20415
VIA Electronic Filing
Re: Improving Performance, Accountability and Responsiveness in the Civil Service (RIN:
3206-AO80)
Dear Acting Director Ezell,
The Center for American Progress (CAP) submits herewith its comments on the Office of
Personnel Management’s (OPM’s) Proposed Rule entitled “Improving Performance,
Accountability and Responsiveness in the Civil Service” (the “proposal” or the “proposed rule”).
The proposed amendments to 5 CFR chapter I, subchapter B are not necessary to improve
executive branch operations, nor will they address the alleged difficulties with chapters 43 and
75 adverse action procedures. The claim that it is too difficult to remove poorly performing
policy-influencing federal civil servants appears to be a pretext for enabling disciplinary actions
that need not be explained and cannot be challenged. If, as the proposal states, the problem lies
with the adverse action procedures themselves, then simply exempting a group of positions from
those procedures does nothing whatsoever to solve that problem. Fairness and efficiency demand
that cumbersome adverse action procedures be reformed for the benefit of all federal agencies
and the entire federal workforce. Congress crafted the current system and therefore is the
appropriate branch of government to assess the system, consider alternatives, and amend the
relevant statutes. Contrary to the assertions in the proposal, implementation of the proposed rule
not only will diminish the effectiveness of the federal government, but also will undermine
national security. Additionally, the proposal is unlikely to withstand judicial review, because the
analysis offered to justify the proposed rule fails to give adequate consideration to the due
process rights and reliance interests of the affected employees. Finally, the proposal incorrectly
asserts that an Executive Order can effectively revoke an agency rule that has been finalized
pursuant to the Administrative Procedure Act.
Americans depend on qualified, experienced federal workers to perform their duties regardless of
their personal political allegiances or policy preferences. The merit system principles codified in
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (CSRA) serve to ensure an efficient, competent,
nonpartisan federal workforce. By unnecessarily expanding the ranks of employees who are
excepted from the provisions of chapters 43 and 75, the proposal would result in a less -- rather
than more -- effective federal workforce. Accordingly, CAP encourages OPM not to finalize this
proposed rule.
Sincerely,
Center for American Progress
